…or push an existing repository from the command line
git remote add origin https://github.com/dejesusis/NYChmis_eva.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main

Cleaning up issues during renv initialization often involves addressing inconsistencies between the project's library, the lockfile, and the R environment. Here are common steps and commands to resolve such issues: Understand the Problem with renv::status().
Use renv::status() to get a report on the state of your project's renv environment. This will highlight discrepancies between the lockfile (renv.lock), the project library, and the packages detected in your R scripts.

Restore the Project Library with renv::restore():
If the project library is inconsistent with the lockfile, renv::restore() will reinstall packages listed in renv.lock into the project library, ensuring the versions match the recorded state. Clean Unused Packages with renv::clean().

If there are packages in your project library that are not recorded in the lockfile or detected as used in your project, renv::clean() can remove them. This helps maintain a lean and consistent environment. You can specify actions for clean() if needed (e.g., actions = "unused.packages"). Update the Lockfile with renv::snapshot().

If you've installed new packages, updated existing ones, or modified your R scripts such that new dependencies are introduced, renv::snapshot() will update renv.lock to reflect the current state of your project's dependencies.
Rebuild the Cache with renv::hydrate() or renv::rebuild():

If issues relate to renv's package cache or problems loading libraries, renv::hydrate() can rebuild the cache based on packages in your default user library, and renv::rebuild() can reinstall all packages in the project library from scratch, which can be useful if the project library itself is corrupted. Address Connectivity or Proxy Issues.

If package downloads are failing during initialization or restoration, check for internet connectivity issues, corporate proxies, or firewall restrictions. Configure renv and R's download methods if necessary, especially in enterprise environments. Deactivate and Reinitialize (If Necessary).

In persistent or complex cases, renv::deactivate() can remove renv's auto-loader, and then you can reinitialize renv using renv::init() to start fresh. Remember to back up your renv.lock file if you want to preserve the dependency list.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Running an R application, particularly a Shiny app, without RStudio is achievable through several methods, as RStudio is an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) that provides a user-friendly interface for R, but it is not strictly necessary for executing R code.
1. Using the Command Line (Terminal/Command Prompt):
For R Scripts.
Code

    Rscript your_script.R

This command executes an R script directly from the command line. For Shiny Apps.
Code

    R -e "shiny::runApp('path/to/your/app')"

This command starts a Shiny application from the command line. You can specify the port and whether to launch the browser automatically. For example:
Code

    R -e "shiny::runApp('path/to/your/app', port=3838, launch.browser=TRUE)"

2. Standalone Executables (for distribution):

RInno Package: This package helps create Windows installers for R applications, bundling R and necessary packages for users without R installed. https://ficonsulting.github.io/RInno/  - reference RInno_Create_App.R file

Shiny.exe Package: This package generates a script and a shortcut that allows launching a Shiny app with a single click, without explicitly opening R or RStudio. Reference ShinyEXE.txt

DesktopDeployR: This framework offers a way to deploy R applications as standalone desktop applications, often bundling a portable R distribution. https://github.com/wleepang/DesktopDeployR

Containerization (e.g., Docker): Packaging your Shiny app and its dependencies within a Docker container allows for consistent execution across different environments, assuming Docker Desktop is installed on the user's machine.

3. Web Deployment:
Shiny Server: Deploying your Shiny app to a Shiny Server allows users to access it through a web browser without needing a local R installation.
Cloud Platforms: Services like Posit Connect, AWS, Google Cloud, or Azure can host Shiny applications, making them accessible via the web.
WebR: This emerging technology allows R to run directly within a web browser, potentially enabling Shiny apps to run without a separate R server.
4. Alternative IDEs/Editors:
VS Code with R extensions: Visual Studio Code offers extensions that provide R language support, allowing for code editing and execution without RStudio.
Other Text Editors: Any text editor can be used to write R code, which can then be executed via the command line.
Key Considerations:
Dependencies: Ensure that all necessary R packages are installed in the R environment where the app or script is being run.
Paths: Correctly specify file paths for scripts, data, and app directories.
User Experience: For users without R experience, standalone executables or web deployments often provide a more seamless experience than command-line execution.